---
title: Overview
bookToc: false
---

# Overview

The LLVM Foundation is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit whose mission is to support
education and advancement of the field of compilers and tools through
educational events, grants and scholarships, and increasing diversity with the
field of compilers, tools, and the LLVM project. We have established 3 main
programs:

* Educational Outreach
* Grants & Scholarships
* Women in Compilers & Tools.

The Educational Outreach program is our largest program and includes educational
materials and events related to the LLVM Project, compiler technology, and
tools. Our 2 largest events are the LLVM Developers’ meetings located in the San
Francisco Bay Area, and in Europe. These meetings serve as a forum for LLVM
project developers, users, and academic researchers to get acquainted, learn how
LLVM is used, and exchange ideas about LLVM and compiler technology. This
program also includes educational materials such as instructional videos and
full video recordings from our developer meetings that are available free to
anyone.

The LLVM project is becoming one of the top platforms of choice for compiler
research at universities. The Grants & Scholarships program is designed to
support student presenter travel to the LLVM Developers’ Meetings and other
conferences that students may attend and present their LLVM and compiler related
work.

Lastly, our Women in Compilers & Tools program aims to increase female
participation in the LLVM Project and the field of compilers and tools. We hope
to achieve this by increasing awareness of the LLVM project at various technical
conferences with strong female participation, established a mentor program, and
lower barriers of entry for this field.
